
Introduction

What is cqct?

Getting Started

	compiling, running.

	paths searched when loading new code
	how to change search path

	C library that can be embedded into other programs
	.h file defines data structures and api

	running against C program using prctl

Domain

	Data type that distinguishes CQCT from other languages.

	Context in which C expressions can be evaluated.
	Defines a set of types, names and types of locations,
        and a set of storage locations and and associated values.
	Concretely, the image of a running process or the contents of
	a core dump file.

	Syntax of CQCT allows actual C expressions, with a few
	extensions, to be directly used to examine and modify domains.

	Most programs are clients of domains that are implemented by
        the system.  For example, prctl provides a domain interface to
	processes on Linux.

	However, new domains also may be implemented by programs.
        This manual documents both the use of domains and the
	implementation of domains.

	Two objects underlie every domain:

	Address space: provides raw, untyped storage.  An array of
	bytes.  

	Name space: definitions of C types and declarations of C
	symbols.

	These are defined separately, then combined to form a domain.

Expressions

	Generally, syntax of C recognized by CQCT:

		for(i = 0; i < 10; i++){
			printf("hello, world\n");
		}

Variables

	Cinquecento variables act like variables in other lexically
	scoped, dynamically typed languages such as Scheme or Python.

	Dynamically typed: types are associated with values, not
	variables.  You can assign values of different types to the
	same variable.  No variable declaration.

	Lexically scoped.  Bindings introduced by @local form, which
	may appear at the beginning of a statement block.  Assignments
	to variables not bound by @local implicitly create a new
	toplevel binding for the variable.

	[Maybe @global for explicit toplevel bindings; warnings for
	all others?]

	Assignment binds a new value to a variable.  C assignment
	operators (+=, ++, etc.) work on arithmetic and pointer
	values.


Backtick

	The expression

		dom`x

	resolves the name X in the context of the domain DOM.

	X identifies one of three types of objects:

	- a typed, named location

	- a C enumeration constant

	- a C type

	The type of object expected depends on the context in
	which the backtick expression occurs.
